Validation in Grid and TreeList docs (#614)
telerik/blazor-docs: components/treelist/editing/validation.md

---
title: Validation

> page_title: TreeList - Validation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
page_title: TreeList Validation
```

description: Built-in validation in the TreeList and how to customize the validation behavior.
slug: treelist-editing-validation
tags: telerik,blazor,treelist,validation,editing
published: True
position: 40
---

# TreeList Validation

> The Telerik UI for Blazor TreeList supports built-in validation That is enabled by default. The component passes down an `EditContext` as a cascading value to the editable cells in the component. If any validation messages are present the TreeList will render them as [Validation Tooltips]({%slug validation-tools-tooltip%}) on hover of the specific editor. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Telerik UI for Blazor TreeList supports built-in validation that is enabled by default. The component passes an `EditContext` as a cascading value to the editable cells. If any validation messages are present the TreeList will render them as [Validation Tooltips]({%slug validation-tools-tooltip%}) on hover of the specific editor. 
```

> #### In this article:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### In this Article:
```

* [Disable the validation](#disable-the-validation)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

* [Use a custom validator](#use-custom-validator)

> ## Disable the validation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Disable Validation
```

> To disable the built-in validation you should add the `TreeListValidationSettings` to the `<TreeListSettings>` and set the `Enabled` parameter to `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To disable the built-in validation, add a `<TreeListValidationSettings>`tag  to the `<TreeListSettings>` and set the `Enabled` parameter to `false`.
```

        {
            for (int i = 0; i < items.Count(); i++)
            {
                if (item.Equals(items[i]))
                {
                    items.Remove(item);

                    return;
                }
                else if (items[i].DirectReports?.Count > 0)
                {
                    RemoveChildRecursive(items[i].DirectReports, item);

                    if (items[i].DirectReports.Count == 0)
                    {
                        items[i].HasChildren = false;
                    }
                }
            }
        }

        static void InsertItemRecursive(List<Employee> Data, Employee insertedItem, Employee parentItem)
        {
            insertedItem.Id = LastId++;
            if (parentItem != null)
            {
                parentItem.HasChildren = true;
                if (parentItem.DirectReports == null)
                {
                    parentItem.DirectReports = new List<Employee>();
                }

                parentItem.DirectReports.Insert(0, insertedItem);
            }
            else
            {
                Data.Insert(0, insertedItem);
            }
        }
    }
}
````

> ## Use a custom validator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use a Custom Validator
```

> You can validate the TreeList with any validator that uses the `EditContext`. To change the default validator, add the `ValidatorTemplate` tag, a child of the `<TreeListSettings>`. In the `ValidatorTemplate` you should define the custom validator that your application requires. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can validate the TreeList with any validator that uses the `EditContext`. To change the default validator, add a `<ValidatorTemplate>` tag in `<TreeListSettings>`. Define the custom validator in the `ValidatorTemplate`. 
```
